---
layout: post
title: GTC 2018 Recap
---
What do video games and deep learning have in common? What about self-driving cars and animation? At first glance, you may think these are compltely unrelated fields, but at their core they share something very important - they are all powered by GPUs.  

I spent the better part of last week in sunny San Jose, CA at the Nvidia GPU Technology Conference - a gathering of experts in artificial intelligence, computer graphics, robotics and more. This was a welcome respite for me, not only because I was able to escape the bitterly cold Michigan "spring" we've been having, but also because it allowed me to step back from the weeds of my own work and once again be inspired by the creativity of others. Coming off of an especially harsh stats test and having my prelim topic approved and oral defense scheduled, believe me when I say it could not have come at a better time. I was anxious to attend this conference alone and dive headfirst in to a world that I had only thusfar toed the waters of, but anxious in the sense of excitement (with a side of crippling nerves of course). What if I said something that gave away that I'm a total n00b at deep learning and GPU computing? But, then again, what if I said something really impressive and made awesome connections that could help with my career goals?? Only time would tell ...

### Day One - Learning to deep learn

Arriving at the conference bright and early on Monday morning, I didn't waste any time and immediately dove into my first training lab, followed by another ... followed by another. Specifically, I attended Medical Image Segmentation using DIGITS, Medical Image Analysis with R and MXNet and Modeling Time Series Data with Recurrent Neural Networks in Keras. All of the training labs were adapted from and taught by experts from the Nvidia [Deep Learning Institute](https://developer.nvidia.com/dli/onlinelabs). If you haven't heard of it, the Nvidia DLI is a great resource for all levels. Whether you're just starting out or want to become an expert in a specific technique or application domain, the DLI probably has a lesson plan for you. All training labs are provided as Jupyter notebooks, which can be edited and run piecewise on a number of huge data sets. Oh, and did I mention that each training lab instance runs on the Nvidia cloud GPU resources?! The catch? Its not free. BUT, some introductory lessons are avaialable to all at no cost, such as Fundamentals of Deep Learning for Computer Vision or Fundamentals of Accelerated Computing with CUDA C/C++. IMO, this is a great place to start and familiarize yourself with concepts, jargon, etc. And no, I promise I'm not sponsored by Nvidia ... yet. 

So back to GTC, I was psyched to have access to these training labs and practice skills on data that's actually relevant to my work and get questions answered by experts. In a single day, I learned to use three different deep learning libraries (Caffe, MXNet, and Keras) in both R and Python. I segmented the left ventricle and estimated blood volume from cardiac MRIs, as well as predicted ICU survival time using electronic health record entries. I learned to implement advanced techniques including long short-term memory (LSTM) networks and transfer learning. Not bad for a day's work.

Freshly energized by all the knowledge I had absorbed that day, I headed to my poster session to present my work on identifying digital biomarkers of Parkinson's Disease from accelerometer and gyroscope data using convolutional neural networks ( [here](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/gtc/poster-gallery/healthcare/) if interested - P8219 ). I didn't expect to have a ton of visitors at this session, considering my poster was set up in a corner next to a trash can and was surrounded by so many incredible works by others, including one on modeling the big bang. I mean, come on, its ASTROPHYSICS! Despite the obstacles, I had several interested people come by and chat with me about my work. There's just something abot getting fresh eyes and opinions on a project that can really reinvigorate your passions for it, and that's definitely what happened with me that night. Overall, I called Day One a success and was excited for what the rest of the conference would bring. 

### Day Two - Keynote

